---
title: 'Using atom as LateX editor: set up and my configuration'
date: 2021-06-28
permalink: /posts/atom-LaTeX
tags:
  - LateX
  - academic
---

Why LaTex 
======
First, I want to give some motivations of using Latex instead of other text editing software such as words, google doc... etc.
Before entering college, I am always a big fan of using the "traditional way" to write any documents, including those that involve
with many scientific notations. The first time I really feel the traditional way is painful and daunting was during the senior of my high school
when I was the TA for the AP Cal class. I was trying to write a useful review packet for the Calc BC kids and working those equations and arrangments
around google doc is time-consuming and frustrating. The size of the equation, their positions, and the way they present seem to be 
extremely inconsistent and ... simply ugly. I began to wonder how did those researchers produce such beautiful papers that is clean easy to read (well I 
mean the layout not the content itself). One can argue that part of what makes mathematics or science in general so appealing is the aesthetic pleasing 
looking of those equations and symbols, which is far from what you will be able to get from normal document editors. That was when I 
discovered LaTex and fell in love with it. I am not going to sugar-coat the disadvantage of LaTex. While it does not require much learning curve,
it is indeed difficult to become fluent with, at least from my personal experience. It does not take too long to figure out how the programming 
language works, how to product the symbols you want, ...etc. But it takes enormous amount of time to be able to type up what you want in a reasonable 
or ideal time frame. 